The data warehouse must make an organization’s information easily acces-
sible. The contents of the data warehouse must be understandable. The
data must be intuitive and obvious to the business user, not merely the
developer. Understandability implies legibility; the contents of the data
warehouse need to be labeled meaningfully. Business users want to sepa-
rate and combine the data in the warehouse in endless combinations, a
process commonly referred to as slicing and dicing. The tools that access the
data warehouse must be simple and easy to use. They also must return
query results to the user with minimal wait times.
The data warehouse must present the organization’s information consis-
tently. The data in the warehouse must be credible. Data must be carefully
assembled from a variety of sources around the organization, cleansed,
quality assured, and released only when it is fit for user consumption.
Information from one business process should match with information
from another. If two performance measures have the same name, then they
must mean the same thing. Conversely, if two measures don’t mean the
same thing, then they should be labeled differently. Consistent information
means high-quality information. It means that all the data is accounted for
and complete. Consistency also implies that common definitions for the
contents of the data warehouse are available for users.
The data warehouse must be adaptive and resilient to change. We simply
can’t avoid change. User needs, business conditions, data, and technology
are all subject to the shifting sands of time. The data warehouse must be
designed to handle this inevitable change. Changes to the data warehouse
should be graceful, meaning that they don’t invalidate existing data or
applications. The existing data and applications should not be changed or
disrupted when the business community asks new questions or new data
is added to the warehouse. If descriptive data in the warehouse is modi-
fied, we must account for the changes appropriately.
Dimensional Modeling Primer 3
The data warehouse must be a secure bastion that protects our information
assets. An organization’s informational crown jewels are stored in the data
warehouse. At a minimum, the warehouse likely contains information
about what we’re selling to whom at what price—potentially harmful
details in the hands of the wrong people. The data warehouse must effec-
tively control access to the organization’s confidential information.
The data warehouse must serve as the foundation for improved decision
making. The data warehouse must have the right data in it to support deci-
sion making. There is only one true output from a data warehouse: the deci-
sions that are made after the data warehouse has presented its evidence.
These decisions deliver the business impact and value attributable to the
warehouse. The original label that predates the data warehouse is still the
best description of what we are designing: a decision support system.
The business community must accept the data warehouse if it is to be
deemed successful. It doesn’t matter that we’ve built an elegant solution
using best-of-breed products and platforms. If the business community has
not embraced the data warehouse and continued to use it actively six
months after training, then we have failed the acceptance test. Unlike an
operational system rewrite, where business users have no choice but to use
the new system, data warehouse usage is sometimes optional. Business
user acceptance has more to do with simplicity than anything else


